Subgraph support for query batching (#4661)
apollographql/router: docs/source/executing-operations/query-batching.mdx

---
title: Query batching
description: Receive query batches with the Apollo Router  
description: Receive query batches with the Apollo Router
---

> <ExperimentalFeature />

Reviewer: We need to add the Enterprise tag to this feature

Author: done: feb1769b41c3f652d27701ff94b08fcd0da19f3d

Modern applications often require several requests to render a single page. This is usually the result of a component-based architecture where individual micro-frontends (MFE) make requests separately to fetch data relevant to them. Not only does this cause a performance overhead—different components may be requesting the same data—it can also cause a consistency issue. To combat this, MFE-based UIs batch multiple client operations, issued close together, into a single HTTP request. This is supported in Apollo Client and Apollo Server.

The Apollo Router supports client and subgraph query batching.

If you’re using Apollo Client, you can leverage the built-in support for batching to reduce the number of individual operations sent to the router.

Once configured, Apollo Client automatically combines multiple operations into a single HTTP request. The number of operations within a batch is client-configurable, including the maximum number in a batch and the maximum duration to wait for operations to accumulate before sending the batch.

> The Apollo Router must be configured to receive query batches, otherwise it rejects them. When processing a  batch, the router deserializes and processes each operation of a batch independently, and it responds to the client only after all operations of the batch have been completed. Each operation executes concurrently with respect to other operations in the batch.

Author: I've added a paragraph. If it needs improvements, feel free to suggest them.

fixed: https://github.com/apollographql/router/commit/7c138693a2f713ee9c0c404dbacc53f6a02cec30

"query MeQuery3__products__0{topProducts{__typename upc}}",
"query MeQuery3__accounts__3{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery4__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery5__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery2__reviews__1($representations:[_Any!]!){_entities(representations:$representations){...on User{reviews{body}}}}",
"query MeQuery3__reviews__1($representations:[_Any!]!){_entities(representations:$representations){...on Product{reviews{author{__typename id}}}}}",
"query MeQuery3__accounts__2($representations:[_Any!]!){_entities(representations:$representations){...on User{name}}}",
```
The first 6 queries may be batched and must be fetched before the final 3 queries can be executed. So, in this case, without subgraph batching you would make 9 fetches in total across the 3 subgraphs. With batching, that would reduce to 5 fetches.

| Subgraph | Fetch Count (without)| Fetch Count (with) |
|----------|----------------------|--------------------|
| accounts | 6                    | 2                  |
| products | 1                    | 1                  |
| reviews  | 2                    | 2                  |

##### Example 2 Simple Subgraph Batching

> For queries which don't have required fetch constraints, subgraph batching is extremely efficient:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example shows how the router can batch subgraph requests in the most efficient scenario, where the queries of a batch don't have required fetch constraints.

Assume the federated graph contains three subgraphs: `accounts`, `products`, and `reviews`.

The input client query to the federated graph:
```

```json title="simple-batch.json"
[
    {"query":"query MeQuery1 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery2 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery3 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery4 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery5 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery6 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery7 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery8 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery9 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery10 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery11 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery12 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery13 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
    {"query":"query MeQuery14 {\n  me {\n    name\n }\n}"},
    {"query":"query MeQuery15 {\n  me {\n    id\n }\n}"}
]
```

> For that input and with the knowledge that our federated graph has 3 subgraphs, accounts, products and reviews, the router will generate a set of queries which look like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the input query, the router generates a set of subgraph queries:
```

```
"query MeQuery1__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery2__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery3__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery4__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery5__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery6__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery7__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery8__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery9__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery10__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery11__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery12__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery13__accounts__0{me{id}}",
"query MeQuery14__accounts__0{me{name}}",
"query MeQuery15__accounts__0{me{id}}",
```

> All of the queries may be batched. So, in this case, 15 fetches would be reduced to 1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of the queries can be combined into a single batch. So instead of 15 (non-batch) subgraph fetches, the router only has to make one fetch.
```

```yaml title="router.all_enabled.yaml"
batching:
  enabled: true
  mode: batch_http_link
  subgraph:
    # Enable batching on all subgraphs
    all:
      enabled: true
```

```yaml title="router.yaml"
batching:
  enabled: true
  mode: batch_http_link
  subgraph:
    # Disable batching on all subgraphs
    all:
      enabled: false
    # Configure(over-ride) batching support per subgraph
    subgraphs:
      subgraph_1:
        enabled: true
      subgraph_2:
        enabled: true
```

<Note>

- The router can be configured to support batching for either all subgraphs or individually enabled per subgraph.

- There are limitations on the ability of the router to preserve batches from the client request into the subgraph requests. In particular, certain forms of queries will require data to be present before they are processed. Consequently, the router will only be able to generate batches from queries which are processed which don't contain such constraints. This may result in the router issuing multiple batches or requests. 

> - If [query deduplication](/graphos/configuration/traffic-shaping/#query-deduplication) is enabled, it will not apply to batched queries. Batching will take precedence over query deduplication. Query deduplication will still be performed for non-batched queries.

Author: @shorgi Could you please confirm that this `query deduplication` link is correct? I can't get the docs stuff to run on my laptop any more (I get a SIGSEGV) so it's hard for me to confirm the URL is correct.

Reviewer 3: It should be this:

```suggestion
- If [query deduplication](../configuration/traffic-shaping/#query-deduplication) is enabled, it will not apply to batched queries. Batching will take precedence over query deduplication. Query deduplication will still be performed for non-batched queries.
```
